doc/manuals/admin/database_model.md, before:

 # <a name="top"></a>Data model

* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [entities collection](#entities-collection)
* [registrations collection](#registrations-collection)
* [csubs collection](#csubs-collection)
* [casubs collection](#casubs-collection)

## Introduction

Normally you don't need to access MongoDB directly as Orion Contex
Broker uses it transparently. However, for some operations (e.g. backup,
fault recovery, etc.) it is useful to know how the database is
structured. This section provides that information.

In the case you need to access database directly, be very careful when manipulation it, as some actions could be irreversible ([doing a
backup](database_admin.md#backing-up-and-restoring-database) at the beginning
it's a good idea).

Orion Context Broker uses four collections in the database, described in
the following subsections.

[Top](#top)

## entities collection

The *entities* collection stores information about NGSI entities. Each
document in the collection corresponds to an entity.

Fields:

-   **\_id** stores the EntityID, including the ID itself and type.
    Given that we use \_id for this, we ensure that EntityIDs
    are unique. The JSON document for this field includes:
    -   **id**: entity NGSI ID
    -   **type**: entity NGSI type
    -   **servicePath**: related with [the service
        path](../user/service_path.md) functionality.
-   **attrs** is an keymap of the different attributes that have been
    created for that entity. The key is generated with the attribute
    name (changing "." for "=", as "." is not a valid character in
    MongoDB document keys).
    Each element in the map has the following information:
    -   **type**: the attribute type
    -   **value**: the attribute value (for those attribute that has
        received at least one update). Up to version 0.10.1, this value
        is always a string, but in 0.11.0 this value can be also a JSON
        object or JSON vector to represent an structured value (see
        section about [structured attribute values in user
        manual](../user/structured_attribute_valued.md)).
    -   **md** (optional): custom metadata. This is a keymap of metadata
        objects. The key is generated with the metadata
        name (changing "." for "=", as "." is not a valid character in
        MongoDB document keys), e.g. a metadata with name "m.x" will
        use the key "m=x". The object value of each key has two
        fields: **type** and **value** (of the metadata).
    -   **mdNames**: an array of strings. Its elements are the names of the
        metadata of the attribute. Here the "." to "="
        replacement is not done.
    -   **creDate**: the timestamp (as integer number) corresponding to attribute creation
        (as a consequence of append).
    -   **modDate**: the timestamp (as integer number) corresponding to last
        attribute update. It matches creDate if the attribute has not been
        modified after creation.
-   **attrNames**: an array of strings. Its elements are the names of the
    attributes of the entity (without IDs). In this case, the "." to "="
    replacement is not done.
-   **creDate**: the timestamp (as integer number) corresponding
    to entity creation date (as a consequence of append).
-   **modDate**: the timestamp (as integer number) corresponding to last entity update. Note
    that it uses to be the same that a modDate corresponding to at least
    one of the attributes (not always: it will not be the same if the
    last update was a DELETE operation). It matches creDate if the
    entity has not been modified after creation.
-   **location** (optional): geographic location of the entity, composed
    of the following fields:
    -   **attrName**: the attribute name that identifies the geographic
        location in the attrs array
    -   **coords**: a GeoJSON representing the location of the entity. See
        below for more details.
-   **lastCorrelator**: value of the `Fiware-Correlator` header in the last
    update request on the entity. Used by the self-notification loop protection
    logic.
-   **expDate** (optional): expiration timestamp (as a Date object) for the
    entity. Have a look to the [transient entities functionality](../user/transient_entities.md)
    for more detail.  

Regarding `location.coords` in can use several formats:

* Representing a point (the one used by geo:point):

```
{
  "type": "Point",
  "coordinates": [ -3.691944, 40.418889 ]
}
```

* Representing a line (the one used by geo:line):

```
{
  "type": "LineString",
  "coordinates": [ [ 10, 0], [0, 10] ]
}
```

* Representing a polygon (the one used by geo:box and geo:polygon):

```
{
  "type": "Polygon",
  "coordinates": [ [ [ 10, 0], [0, 10], [0, 0], [10, 0] ] ]
}
```

* Finally, `location.coords` could hold an arbitrary JSON object, representing a location
  in [GeoJSON](http://www.macwright.org/2015/03/23/geojson-second-bite.html) format. Arbitrary
  GeoJSON can be used with the geo:json attribute type and it is up to the user to introduce
  a valid object. Note that the three above cases are actually GeoJSON representation for
  "fixed" cases.

Note that coordinate pairs use the longitude-latitude order, which is opposite to the order used
in the [geo-location API](../user/geolocation.md). This is due to the internal
[MongoDB geolocation implementation](http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/tutorial/query-a-2dsphere-index/),
(which is based in GeoJSON) uses longitude-latitude order. However, other systems closer
to users (e.g. GoogleMaps) use latitude-longitude format, so we have used the latter for the API.

Example document:

```
 {
   "_id":
       "id": "E1",
       "type": "T1",
       "servicePath": "/"
   },
   "attrs": {
       "A1": {
           "type": "TA1",
           "value": "282",
           "creDate" : 1389376081,
           "modDate" : 1389376120,
           "md" : {
              "customMD1": {
                 "type" : "string",
                 "value" : "AKAKA"
              },
              "customMD2": {
                 "type" : "integer",
                 "value" : "23232"
              }
           },
           "mdNames": [ "customMD1", "customMD2" ]
       },
       "A2()ID101": {
           "type": "TA2",
           "value": "176",
           "creDate" : 1389376244,
           "modDate" : 1389376244
       },
       "position": {
           "type": "location",
           "value": "40.418889, -3.691944",
           "creDate" : 1389376244,
           "modDate" : 1389376244
       }
   },
   "attrNames": [ "A1", "A2", "position" ],
   "creDate": 1389376081,
   "modDate": 1389376244,
   "location": {
       "attrName": "position",
       "coords": {
           "type": "Point",
           "coordinates": [ -3.691944, 40.418889 ]
       }
   },
   "lastCorrelator" : "aa01d6c6-4f7e-11e7-8059-000c29173617"
 }
```
[Top](#top)

## registrations collection

The *registrations* collection stores information about
registrations. Each document in the collection corresponds to a
registration.

Fields:

-   **\_id** is the registration ID (the value that is provided to the
    user to update the registration). Given that we use \_id for this,
    we ensure that registration IDs are unique and that queries by
    registration IDs will be very fast (as there is an automatic default
    index in \_id).
-   **format**: the format to use to send forwarded requests. The only accepted value for now
    is **JSON** (meaning NGSIv1 format), although this
    may change in the future (see [issue about NGSIv2-based forwarding](https://github.com/telefonicaid/fiware-orion/issues/3068)).
-   **servicePath**: related with [the service
    path](../user/service_path.md) functionality.
-   **status** (optional): either `active` (for active registrations) or `inactive` (for inactive registrations).
    The default status (i.e. if the document omits this field) is "active".
-   **description** (optional): a free text string describing the registration. Maximum length is 1024.
-   **expiration**: this is the timestamp for which the
    registration expires.
-   **contextRegistration**: is an array whose elements contain the
    following information:
    -   **entities**: an array containing a list of
        entities (mandatory). The JSON for each entity contains **id**,
        **type**, **isPattern** and **isTypePattern**. Note that, due to legacy
        reasons, **isPattern** may be `"true"` or `"false"` (text) while
        **isTypePattern** may be `true` or `false` (boolean).
    -   **attrs**: an array containing a list of attributes (optional).
        The JSON for each attribute contains **name** and **type**.
    -   **providingApplication**: the URL of the providing application
        for this registration (mandatory)

Example document:

```
 {
   "_id": ObjectId("5149f60cf0075f2fabca43da"),
   "format": "JSON",
   "expiration": 1360232760,
   "contextRegistration": [
       {
           "entities": [
               {
                   "id": "E1",
                   "type": "T1",
                   "isPattern": "false"
               },
               {
                   "id": "E2",
                   "type": "T2",
                   "isPattern": "false"
               }
           ],
           "attrs": [
               {
                   "name": "A1",
                   "type": "TA1"
               },
               {
                   "name": "A2",
                   "type": "TA2"
               }
           ],
           "providingApplication": "http://foo.bar/notif"
      },
      "status": "active"
  ]
 }
```
[Top](#top)

## csubs collection

The *csubs* collection stores information about context subscriptions.
Each document in the collection corresponds to a subscription.

Fields:

-   **\_id** is the subscription ID (the value that is provided to the
    user to update and cancel the subscription). Given that we use \_id
    for this, we ensure that subscription IDs are unique and that
    queries by subscription IDs are very fast (as there is an automatic
    default index in \_id).
-   **servicePath**: related with [the service
    path](../user/service_path.md) functionality. This is the service path
    associated to the query "encapsulated" by the subscription. Default
    is `/#`.
-   **expiration**: this is the timestamp on which the
    subscription expires. For permanent subscriptions
    an absurdly high value is used (see PERMANENT_SUBS_DATETIME in the source code).
-   **lastNotification**: the time when last notification was sent. This
    is updated each time a notification is sent, to avoid violating throttling.
-   **throttling**: minimum interval between notifications. 0 or -1 means no throttling.
-   **reference**: the URL for notifications
-   **entities**: an array of entities (mandatory). The JSON for each
    entity contains **id**, **type**, **isPattern** and **isTypePattern**. Note that,
    due to legacy reasons, **isPattern** may be `"true"` or `"false"` (text) while
    **isTypePattern** may be `true` or `false` (boolean).
-   **attrs**: an array of attribute names (strings) (optional).
-   **blacklist**: a boolean field that specifies if `attrs` has to be interpreted
    as a whitelist (if `blacklist` is equal to `false` or doesn't exist) or a
    blacklist (if `blacklist` is equal to `true`).
-   **metadata**: an array of metadata names (strings) (optional).
-   **conditions**: a list of attributes that trigger notifications.
-   **expression**: an expression used to evaluate if notifications has
    to be sent or not when updates come. It may be composed of the following
    fields: q, mq, georel, geometry and/or coords (optional)
-   **count**: the number of notifications sent associated to
    the subscription.   
-   **format**: the format to use to send notification, possible values are **JSON**
    (meaning JSON notifications in NGSIv1 legacy format), **normalized**, **keyValues** and **values** (the last three used in NGSIv2 format).
-   **status**: either `active` (for active subscriptions) or `inactive` (for inactive subscriptions).
-   **description** (optional field): a free text string describing the subscription. Maximum length is 1024.
-   **custom**: a boolean field to specify if this subscription uses customized notifications (a functionality in the NGSIv2 API).
    If this field exist and its value is "true" then customized notifications are used and the `headers`, `qs`, `method` and
    `payload` fields are taken into account.
-   **headers**: optional field to store the HTTP headers keymap for notification customization functionality in NGSIv2.
-   **qs**: optional field to store the query parameters keymap for notification customization functionality in NGSIv2.
-   **method**: optional field to store the HTTP method for notification customization functionality in NGSIv2.
-   **payload**: optional field to store the payload for notification customization functionality in NGSIv2.
-   **lastFailure**: the time when last notification failure occurred.
    Not present if the subscription has never failed.
-   **lastSuccess**: the time when last successful notification occurred.
    Not present if the subscription has never provoked a successful notification.

Example document:

```
{
        "_id" : ObjectId("5697d4d123acbf5e794ab031"),
        "expiration" : NumberLong(1459864800),
        "reference" : "http://localhost:1234",
        "servicePath" : "/",
        "entities" : [
                {
                        "id" : ".*",
                        "type" : "Room",
                        "isPattern" : "true",
                        "isTypePattern": false
                }
        ],
        "attrs" : [
                "humidity",
                "temperature"
        ],
        "conditions" : [ "temperature" ],
        "expression" : {
                "q" : "temperature>40",
                "mq" : "temperature.accuracy<1",
                "geometry" : "",
                "coords" : "",
                "georel" : ""
        },
        "format" : "JSON",
        "status" : "active"
}
```
[Top](#top)

## casubs collection

The *casubs* collection stores information about context availability subscriptions.
Each document in the collection corresponds to a subscription.

Fields:

-   **\_id** is the subscription ID (the value that is provided to the
    user to update and cancel the subscription). Given that we use \_id
    for this, we ensure that subscription IDs are unique and that
    queries by subscription IDs are very fast (as there is an automatic
    default index in \_id).
-   **expiration**: this is the timestamp on which the subscription
    will expire.
-   **reference**: the URL to send notifications
-   **entities**: an array of entities (mandatory). The JSON for each
    entity contains **id**, **type** and **isPattern**.
-   **attrs**: an array of attribute names (strings) (optional).
-   **lastNotification**: timestamp corresponding to the last
    notification sent associated to a given subscription.
-   **count**: the number of notifications sent associated to
    the subscription.
-   **format**: the format to use to send notification, currently "JSON"
    meaning JSON notifications in NGSIv1 format.

Example document:

```
 {
   "_id": ObjectId("51756c2220be8dc1b5f415ff"),
   "expiration": 1360236300,
   "reference": "http://notify.me",
   "entities": [
       {
           "id": "E5",
           "type": "T5",
           "isPattern": "false"
       },
       {
           "id": "E6",
           "type": "T6",
           "isPattern": "false"
       }
   ],
   "attrs": [
       "A1",
       "A2"
   ],
   "lastNotification" : 1381132312,
   "count": 42,
   "format": "JSON"
 }
```
[Top](#top)

Commit message:

Improving notification logs (#3414)
* FIX corr/from/srv/subsrv propagation into notification logs

*  FIX missing ;

* FIX loging notification response code and testing script

* FIX avoid "pending" fields in logs

* FIX fix double alarm problem

* ADD lastFailureCause and lastSucessCode fields to subscriptions (WIP)

* FIX broken ftest due to sligth change in log msg text spectations

* ADD lastFailureCause and lastSucessCode in GET subscription logic

* ADD subscription active/fail test cases

* FIX add documentation regarding lastSuccessCode and lastFailureReason

* FIX final adjust before ending PR

* FIX image file inclusion in manual

doc/manuals/admin/database_model.md, after:

 # <a name="top"></a>Data model

* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [entities collection](#entities-collection)
* [registrations collection](#registrations-collection)
* [csubs collection](#csubs-collection)
* [casubs collection](#casubs-collection)

## Introduction

Normally you don't need to access MongoDB directly as Orion Contex
Broker uses it transparently. However, for some operations (e.g. backup,
fault recovery, etc.) it is useful to know how the database is
structured. This section provides that information.

In the case you need to access database directly, be very careful when manipulation it, as some actions could be irreversible ([doing a
backup](database_admin.md#backing-up-and-restoring-database) at the beginning
it's a good idea).

Orion Context Broker uses four collections in the database, described in
the following subsections.

[Top](#top)

## entities collection

The *entities* collection stores information about NGSI entities. Each
document in the collection corresponds to an entity.

Fields:

-   **\_id** stores the EntityID, including the ID itself and type.
    Given that we use \_id for this, we ensure that EntityIDs
    are unique. The JSON document for this field includes:
    -   **id**: entity NGSI ID
    -   **type**: entity NGSI type
    -   **servicePath**: related with [the service
        path](../user/service_path.md) functionality.
-   **attrs** is an keymap of the different attributes that have been
    created for that entity. The key is generated with the attribute
    name (changing "." for "=", as "." is not a valid character in
    MongoDB document keys).
    Each element in the map has the following information:
    -   **type**: the attribute type
    -   **value**: the attribute value (for those attribute that has
        received at least one update). Up to version 0.10.1, this value
        is always a string, but in 0.11.0 this value can be also a JSON
        object or JSON vector to represent an structured value (see
        section about [structured attribute values in user
        manual](../user/structured_attribute_valued.md)).
    -   **md** (optional): custom metadata. This is a keymap of metadata
        objects. The key is generated with the metadata
        name (changing "." for "=", as "." is not a valid character in
        MongoDB document keys), e.g. a metadata with name "m.x" will
        use the key "m=x". The object value of each key has two
        fields: **type** and **value** (of the metadata).
    -   **mdNames**: an array of strings. Its elements are the names of the
        metadata of the attribute. Here the "." to "="
        replacement is not done.
    -   **creDate**: the timestamp (as integer number) corresponding to attribute creation
        (as a consequence of append).
    -   **modDate**: the timestamp (as integer number) corresponding to last
        attribute update. It matches creDate if the attribute has not been
        modified after creation.
-   **attrNames**: an array of strings. Its elements are the names of the
    attributes of the entity (without IDs). In this case, the "." to "="
    replacement is not done.
-   **creDate**: the timestamp (as integer number) corresponding
    to entity creation date (as a consequence of append).
-   **modDate**: the timestamp (as integer number) corresponding to last entity update. Note
    that it uses to be the same that a modDate corresponding to at least
    one of the attributes (not always: it will not be the same if the
    last update was a DELETE operation). It matches creDate if the
    entity has not been modified after creation.
-   **location** (optional): geographic location of the entity, composed
    of the following fields:
    -   **attrName**: the attribute name that identifies the geographic
        location in the attrs array
    -   **coords**: a GeoJSON representing the location of the entity. See
        below for more details.
-   **lastCorrelator**: value of the `Fiware-Correlator` header in the last
    update request on the entity. Used by the self-notification loop protection
    logic.
-   **expDate** (optional): expiration timestamp (as a Date object) for the
    entity. Have a look to the [transient entities functionality](../user/transient_entities.md)
    for more detail.  

Regarding `location.coords` in can use several formats:

* Representing a point (the one used by geo:point):

```
{
  "type": "Point",
  "coordinates": [ -3.691944, 40.418889 ]
}
```

* Representing a line (the one used by geo:line):

```
{
  "type": "LineString",
  "coordinates": [ [ 10, 0], [0, 10] ]
}
```

* Representing a polygon (the one used by geo:box and geo:polygon):

```
{
  "type": "Polygon",
  "coordinates": [ [ [ 10, 0], [0, 10], [0, 0], [10, 0] ] ]
}
```

* Finally, `location.coords` could hold an arbitrary JSON object, representing a location
  in [GeoJSON](http://www.macwright.org/2015/03/23/geojson-second-bite.html) format. Arbitrary
  GeoJSON can be used with the geo:json attribute type and it is up to the user to introduce
  a valid object. Note that the three above cases are actually GeoJSON representation for
  "fixed" cases.

Note that coordinate pairs use the longitude-latitude order, which is opposite to the order used
in the [geo-location API](../user/geolocation.md). This is due to the internal
[MongoDB geolocation implementation](http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/tutorial/query-a-2dsphere-index/),
(which is based in GeoJSON) uses longitude-latitude order. However, other systems closer
to users (e.g. GoogleMaps) use latitude-longitude format, so we have used the latter for the API.

Example document:

```
 {
   "_id":
       "id": "E1",
       "type": "T1",
       "servicePath": "/"
   },
   "attrs": {
       "A1": {
           "type": "TA1",
           "value": "282",
           "creDate" : 1389376081,
           "modDate" : 1389376120,
           "md" : {
              "customMD1": {
                 "type" : "string",
                 "value" : "AKAKA"
              },
              "customMD2": {
                 "type" : "integer",
                 "value" : "23232"
              }
           },
           "mdNames": [ "customMD1", "customMD2" ]
       },
       "A2()ID101": {
           "type": "TA2",
           "value": "176",
           "creDate" : 1389376244,
           "modDate" : 1389376244
       },
       "position": {
           "type": "location",
           "value": "40.418889, -3.691944",
           "creDate" : 1389376244,
           "modDate" : 1389376244
       }
   },
   "attrNames": [ "A1", "A2", "position" ],
   "creDate": 1389376081,
   "modDate": 1389376244,
   "location": {
       "attrName": "position",
       "coords": {
           "type": "Point",
           "coordinates": [ -3.691944, 40.418889 ]
       }
   },
   "lastCorrelator" : "aa01d6c6-4f7e-11e7-8059-000c29173617"
 }
```
[Top](#top)

## registrations collection

The *registrations* collection stores information about
registrations. Each document in the collection corresponds to a
registration.

Fields:

-   **\_id** is the registration ID (the value that is provided to the
    user to update the registration). Given that we use \_id for this,
    we ensure that registration IDs are unique and that queries by
    registration IDs will be very fast (as there is an automatic default
    index in \_id).
-   **format**: the format to use to send forwarded requests. The only accepted value for now
    is **JSON** (meaning NGSIv1 format), although this
    may change in the future (see [issue about NGSIv2-based forwarding](https://github.com/telefonicaid/fiware-orion/issues/3068)).
-   **servicePath**: related with [the service
    path](../user/service_path.md) functionality.
-   **status** (optional): either `active` (for active registrations) or `inactive` (for inactive registrations).
    The default status (i.e. if the document omits this field) is "active".
-   **description** (optional): a free text string describing the registration. Maximum length is 1024.
-   **expiration**: this is the timestamp for which the
    registration expires.
-   **contextRegistration**: is an array whose elements contain the
    following information:
    -   **entities**: an array containing a list of
        entities (mandatory). The JSON for each entity contains **id**,
        **type**, **isPattern** and **isTypePattern**. Note that, due to legacy
        reasons, **isPattern** may be `"true"` or `"false"` (text) while
        **isTypePattern** may be `true` or `false` (boolean).
    -   **attrs**: an array containing a list of attributes (optional).
        The JSON for each attribute contains **name** and **type**.
    -   **providingApplication**: the URL of the providing application
        for this registration (mandatory)

Example document:

```
 {
   "_id": ObjectId("5149f60cf0075f2fabca43da"),
   "format": "JSON",
   "expiration": 1360232760,
   "contextRegistration": [
       {
           "entities": [
               {
                   "id": "E1",
                   "type": "T1",
                   "isPattern": "false"
               },
               {
                   "id": "E2",
                   "type": "T2",
                   "isPattern": "false"
               }
           ],
           "attrs": [
               {
                   "name": "A1",
                   "type": "TA1"
               },
               {
                   "name": "A2",
                   "type": "TA2"
               }
           ],
           "providingApplication": "http://foo.bar/notif"
      },
      "status": "active"
  ]
 }
```
[Top](#top)

## csubs collection

The *csubs* collection stores information about context subscriptions.
Each document in the collection corresponds to a subscription.

Fields:

-   **\_id** is the subscription ID (the value that is provided to the
    user to update and cancel the subscription). Given that we use \_id
    for this, we ensure that subscription IDs are unique and that
    queries by subscription IDs are very fast (as there is an automatic
    default index in \_id).
-   **servicePath**: related with [the service
    path](../user/service_path.md) functionality. This is the service path
    associated to the query "encapsulated" by the subscription. Default
    is `/#`.
-   **expiration**: this is the timestamp on which the
    subscription expires. For permanent subscriptions
    an absurdly high value is used (see PERMANENT_SUBS_DATETIME in the source code).
-   **lastNotification**: the time when last notification was sent. This
    is updated each time a notification is sent, to avoid violating throttling.
-   **throttling**: minimum interval between notifications. 0 or -1 means no throttling.
-   **reference**: the URL for notifications
-   **entities**: an array of entities (mandatory). The JSON for each
    entity contains **id**, **type**, **isPattern** and **isTypePattern**. Note that,
    due to legacy reasons, **isPattern** may be `"true"` or `"false"` (text) while
    **isTypePattern** may be `true` or `false` (boolean).
-   **attrs**: an array of attribute names (strings) (optional).
-   **blacklist**: a boolean field that specifies if `attrs` has to be interpreted
    as a whitelist (if `blacklist` is equal to `false` or doesn't exist) or a
    blacklist (if `blacklist` is equal to `true`).
-   **metadata**: an array of metadata names (strings) (optional).
-   **conditions**: a list of attributes that trigger notifications.
-   **expression**: an expression used to evaluate if notifications has
    to be sent or not when updates come. It may be composed of the following
    fields: q, mq, georel, geometry and/or coords (optional)
-   **count**: the number of notifications sent associated to
    the subscription.   
-   **format**: the format to use to send notification, possible values are **JSON**
    (meaning JSON notifications in NGSIv1 legacy format), **normalized**, **keyValues** and **values** (the last three used in NGSIv2 format).
-   **status**: either `active` (for active subscriptions) or `inactive` (for inactive subscriptions).
-   **description** (optional field): a free text string describing the subscription. Maximum length is 1024.
-   **custom**: a boolean field to specify if this subscription uses customized notifications (a functionality in the NGSIv2 API).
    If this field exist and its value is "true" then customized notifications are used and the `headers`, `qs`, `method` and
    `payload` fields are taken into account.
-   **headers**: optional field to store the HTTP headers keymap for notification customization functionality in NGSIv2.
-   **qs**: optional field to store the query parameters keymap for notification customization functionality in NGSIv2.
-   **method**: optional field to store the HTTP method for notification customization functionality in NGSIv2.
-   **payload**: optional field to store the payload for notification customization functionality in NGSIv2.
-   **lastFailure**: the time when last notification failure occurred.
    Not present if the subscription has never failed.
-   **lastFailureReason**: text describing the cause of the last failure.
    Not present if the subscription has never failed.
-   **lastSuccess**: the time when last successful notification occurred.
    Not present if the subscription has never provoked a successful notification.
-   **lastSuccessCode**: HTTP code (200, 400, 404, 500, etc.) returned by receiving endpoint last
    time a successful notification was sent.
    Not present if the subscription has never provoked a successful notification.

Example document:

```
{
        "_id" : ObjectId("5697d4d123acbf5e794ab031"),
        "expiration" : NumberLong(1459864800),
        "reference" : "http://localhost:1234",
        "servicePath" : "/",
        "entities" : [
                {
                        "id" : ".*",
                        "type" : "Room",
                        "isPattern" : "true",
                        "isTypePattern": false
                }
        ],
        "attrs" : [
                "humidity",
                "temperature"
        ],
        "conditions" : [ "temperature" ],
        "expression" : {
                "q" : "temperature>40",
                "mq" : "temperature.accuracy<1",
                "geometry" : "",
                "coords" : "",
                "georel" : ""
        },
        "format" : "JSON",
        "status" : "active"
}
```
[Top](#top)

## casubs collection

The *casubs* collection stores information about context availability subscriptions.
Each document in the collection corresponds to a subscription.

Fields:

-   **\_id** is the subscription ID (the value that is provided to the
    user to update and cancel the subscription). Given that we use \_id
    for this, we ensure that subscription IDs are unique and that
    queries by subscription IDs are very fast (as there is an automatic
    default index in \_id).
-   **expiration**: this is the timestamp on which the subscription
    will expire.
-   **reference**: the URL to send notifications
-   **entities**: an array of entities (mandatory). The JSON for each
    entity contains **id**, **type** and **isPattern**.
-   **attrs**: an array of attribute names (strings) (optional).
-   **lastNotification**: timestamp corresponding to the last
    notification sent associated to a given subscription.
-   **count**: the number of notifications sent associated to
    the subscription.
-   **format**: the format to use to send notification, currently "JSON"
    meaning JSON notifications in NGSIv1 format.

Example document:

```
 {
   "_id": ObjectId("51756c2220be8dc1b5f415ff"),
   "expiration": 1360236300,
   "reference": "http://notify.me",
   "entities": [
       {
           "id": "E5",
           "type": "T5",
           "isPattern": "false"
       },
       {
           "id": "E6",
           "type": "T6",
           "isPattern": "false"
       }
   ],
   "attrs": [
       "A1",
       "A2"
   ],
   "lastNotification" : 1381132312,
   "count": 42,
   "format": "JSON"
 }
```
[Top](#top)
