doc/manuals/user/known_limitations.md, before:

# Known limitations

## Request maximum size

The current default maximum request size in Orion Context Broker is 1 MB. This
limit should suffice the most of the use cases and, at the same time,
avoids denial of service due to too large requests. If you don't take
this limitation into account, you will get messages such the following
ones:

```
{
  "errorCode" : {
    "code" : "413",
    "reasonPhrase" : "Request Entity Too Large",
    "details" : "payload size: 1500000, max size supported: 1048576"
  }
}
```

Or, if you are sending a huge request, this one:

    <html>
      <head><title>Internal server error</title></head>
      <body>Some programmer needs to study the manual more carefully.</body>
    </html>

(Please ignore the "Some programmer needs to study the manual more
carefully" text. Developers of the HTTP library in which Orion Context
Broker is based seem to be funny guys :) :)

If this 1 MB limit doesn't work for you, you can change it using the CLI option -payloadMaxSize.
But, this is untested territory. At your own risk ...

## Notification maximum size

Notification maximum size is set to 8MB. Larger notifications will not be sent by context broker and you
will get the following trace in the log file:

    HTTP request to send is too large: N bytes

where N is the number of bytes of the too large notification.

## Content-Length header is required

Orion Context Broker expects always a Content-Length header in all
client requests, otherwise the client will receive a "411 Length
Required" response. This is due to the way the underlying HTTP library
(microhttpd) works, see details in [this email thread in the microhttpd
mailing
list](http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/libmicrohttpd/2014-01/msg00063.html).

## Entity fields length limitation

Due to limitations at MongoDB layer, the length of entity ID, type and servicePath has to follow the following rule.

    length(id) + length(type) + length(servicePath) + 10 < 1024

Otherwise, we will get an error at entity creation time.

## Entity fields size limitation

Due to underlying DB limitations (see details [here](https://github.com/telefonicaid/fiware-orion/issues/1289)),
the combined size (sum) of entity id, entity type and entity service path cannot exceed 1014 characters (this is not a typo, 
it corresponds to 1024 minus 10, details in the aforementioned link ;). If you attempt to overpass the limit you will get
a 400 BadRequest "Too long entity id/type/servicePath combination" error.

## Subscription cache limitation

Orion Context Broker uses a subscription cache (actually, a bad name, given it is more a mem map than a cache ;) to speed up
subscription triggering. That cache consumes RAM space and if you are using an abnormally high number of subscriptions, Orion
may crash due to memory outage. It would be extremely rare to have that situation in a real usage case (we have been able to
reproduce the situation only in a laboratory setup) but, if happens, then disable cache usage with the `-noCache` CLI switch.

As a reference, in our lab tests in a machine with Orion 1.13.0 running with 4 GB RAM, Orion crashed when the number 
of subscriptions got higher than 211.000 subscriptions.

There is [an issue in the repository](https://github.com/telefonicaid/fiware-orion/issues/2780) about improvements related with this.

Commit message:

Added a limit for max payload size in notifications. Unhardwired the max msg size for outgoing messages

doc/manuals/user/known_limitations.md, after:

# Known limitations

## Request maximum size

The current default maximum request size in Orion Context Broker is 1 MB. This
limit should suffice the most of the use cases and, at the same time,
avoids denial of service due to too large requests. If you don't take
this limitation into account, you will get messages such the following
ones:

```
{
  "errorCode" : {
    "code" : "413",
    "reasonPhrase" : "Request Entity Too Large",
    "details" : "payload size: 1500000, max size supported: 1048576"
  }
}
```

Or, if you are sending a huge request, this one:

    <html>
      <head><title>Internal server error</title></head>
      <body>Some programmer needs to study the manual more carefully.</body>
    </html>

(Please ignore the "Some programmer needs to study the manual more
carefully" text. Developers of the HTTP library in which Orion Context
Broker is based seem to be funny guys :) :)

If this 1 MB limit doesn't work for you, you can change it using the CLI option -payloadMaxSize.
But, this is untested territory. At your own risk ...

## Notification maximum size

The maximum size of notification payloads defaults to 8MB. Larger notifications will not be sent by the context broker and you
will get the following trace in the log file:

    HTTP request to send is too large: N bytes

where N is the number of bytes of the too large notification.

However, you can change this limit by starting the broker with the CLI option `-notifMaxSize <size in bytes>`

Note also that there is another message size limit, one that is valid for **all** outgoing messages from the broker:

* Normal responses
* Notifications
* Forwarded messages

This last message size limit is about the size of the entire message, not only the payload and its default value is 8MB, which can
be modified using the CLI option `-outMsgMaxSize`.


## Content-Length header is required

Orion Context Broker expects always a Content-Length header in all
client requests, otherwise the client will receive a "411 Length
Required" response. This is due to the way the underlying HTTP library
(microhttpd) works, see details in [this email thread in the microhttpd
mailing
list](http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/libmicrohttpd/2014-01/msg00063.html).

## Entity fields length limitation

Due to limitations of the MongoDB layer, the length of entity ID, type and servicePath has to follow the following rule.

    length(id) + length(type) + length(servicePath) + 10 < 1024

Otherwise, there will be an error at entity creation time.

## Entity fields size limitation

Due to underlying DB limitations (see details [here](https://github.com/telefonicaid/fiware-orion/issues/1289)),
the combined size (sum) of entity id, entity type and entity service path cannot exceed 1014 characters (this is not a typo, 
it corresponds to 1024 minus 10, details in the aforementioned link ;). If you attempt to overpass the limit you will get
a 400 BadRequest "Too long entity id/type/servicePath combination" error.

## Subscription cache limitation

Orion Context Broker uses a subscription cache (actually, a bad name, given it is more a mem map than a cache ;) to speed up
subscription triggering. That cache consumes RAM space and if you are using an abnormally high number of subscriptions, Orion
may crash due to memory outage. It would be extremely rare to have that situation in a real usage case (we have been able to
reproduce the situation only in a laboratory setup) but, if happens, then disable cache usage with the `-noCache` CLI switch.

As a reference, in our lab tests in a machine with Orion 1.13.0 running with 4 GB RAM, Orion crashed when the number 
of subscriptions got higher than 211.000 subscriptions.

There is [an issue in the repository](https://github.com/telefonicaid/fiware-orion/issues/2780) about improvements related with this.
