doc/manuals/admin/extra/ha.md, before:

# Create an Orion Context Broker cluster in High Availability

This documentation describe how to set-up on a generic infrastructure an
Orion Context Broker cluster in High Availability.

The architecture is made by three logical layers:
* A Load Balancer (implemented using HA Proxy)
* The Orion Context Broker
* The MongoDB ReplicaSet backend

The ideal solution for providing Active-Active access to the HA Proxy cluster
(and consequently to the Context Broker) is the adoption of a DNS service that
supports multiple IPs for a single name.
This will allow clients to use a round-robin solution to pick the actual 
host to connect with, in case of failure, the second will be used and so on.
The alternative is the usage of a VIP mechanism to provide Active-Passive access
to the HA Proxy cluster. In this case, the active instance of HA proxy will be
only one, in case of a failure of the active HA Proxy, one of the other HA Proxy
will take on the Virtual IP.

The picture below present the network architecture of the deployed cluster.

![ha.png](ha.png)

In the following we describe the different steps to configure such a cluster
on a set of virtual machines. In docker related documentation, we shortly
discuss how to create the same architecture leveraging on a
[Docker Swarm cluster](../../../../docker/docker_swarm.md).

## Services configuration

The configuration discussed below assume you have one server per each box
represented in the architecture. Of course, different layers, e.g. HA Proxy
and Context Broker can be combined together on a single server.

Requirements:
* 3 VMs running Centos for the Context Broker layer.
* 6 VMs running Ubuntu 16.04 LTS for the HA Proxy and MongoDB layers.

### MongoDB configuration

For each server:

1. Configure the Firewall to block access from outside the local network except
   for SSH and on local network for 27017

    ```bash
    $ nano /etc/iptables.rules

    *filter
    :INPUT DROP [0:0]
    :FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
    :OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
    :LOGGING - [0:0]
    #COMMIT
    -A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -p icmp -s 10.0.64.0/25 -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -m state --state NEW -m tcp -p tcp --dport 27017 -s 10.0.64.0/25 -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -p tcp -m state --state NEW -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
    COMMIT

    $ iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.rules
    ```

1. Configure the hosts file to include local network hostname resolution

    ```bash
    $ nano /etc/hosts

    10.0.64.32   mongo1
    10.0.64.33   mongo2
    10.0.64.34   mongo3

    10.0.64.35   contextbroker1
    10.0.64.36   contextbroker2
    10.0.64.37   contextbroker3

    10.0.64.38   proxy1
    10.0.64.39   proxy2
    10.0.64.40   proxy3
    ```

1. Install MongoDB 3.2 using the following commands

    ```bash
    $ sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv EA312927
    $ echo "deb http://repo.mongodb.org/apt/ubuntu xenial/mongodb-org/3.2 multiverse" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mongodb-org-3.2.list

    $ sudo apt-get update

    $ sudo apt-get install -y mongodb-org
    ```

1. Define the ReplicaSet configuration in the MongoDb configuration file
    ```/etc/mongodb.conf```, comment the ```bindIp``` directive to allow 
    connection from ```localhost``` and ```10.0.64.0/25``` network:

    ```bash
    $ nano /etc/mongodb.conf

    # mongod.conf

    # for documentation of all options, see:
    # http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/reference/configuration-options/

    # Where and how to store data.
    storage:
      dbPath: /var/lib/mongodb
      journal:
        enabled: true
    #  engine:
    #  mmapv1:
    #  wiredTiger:

    # where to write logging data.
    systemLog:
      destination: file
      logAppend: true
      path: /var/log/mongodb/mongod.log

    # network interfaces
    net:
      port: 27017
    #  bindIp: 10.0.64.32

    replication:
      replSetName: contextBroker
    ```

1. Start all the MongoDB

    ```bash
    service mongod start
    ```

On the primary node (you choose, during the set-up it was used `mongo1`):

1. Set the export lang

    ```bash
    EXPORT LC_ALL=C 
    ```

1. Connect to mongodb

    ```bash
    mongo
    ```

1. Provide the configuration of the Primary node

    ```
    config = {
      _id: "contextBroker",
      members: [
        {
          _id: 0,
          host: "mongo1:27017"
        }
      ]
    ```

1. Initialise the replica set

    ```
    rs.initiate(config);
    ```

1. Add the other nodes

    ```
    rs.add("mongo2:27017");
    rs.add("mongo3:27017");
    ```

1. Check that the status of the cluster is correct

    ```
    rs.status();

    {
      "set" : "contextBroker",
      "date" : ISODate("2017-02-02T17:25:57.605Z"),
      "myState" : 2,
      "term" : NumberLong(5),
      "syncingTo" : "mongo2:27017",
      "heartbeatIntervalMillis" : NumberLong(2000),
      "members" : [
        {
          "_id" : 0,
          "name" : "mongo1:27017",
          "health" : 1,
          "state" : 2,
          "stateStr" : "SECONDARY",
          "uptime" : 3967,
          "optime" : {
            "ts" : Timestamp(1486052399, 1),
            "t" : NumberLong(5)
          },
          "optimeDate" : ISODate("2017-02-02T16:19:59Z"),
          "syncingTo" : "mongo2:27017",
          "configVersion" : 3,
          "self" : true
        },
        {
          "_id" : 1,
          "name" : "mongo3:27017",
          "health" : 1,
          "state" : 2,
          "stateStr" : "SECONDARY",
          "uptime" : 3929,
          "optime" : {
            "ts" : Timestamp(1486052399, 1),
            "t" : NumberLong(5)
          },
          "optimeDate" : ISODate("2017-02-02T16:19:59Z"),
          "lastHeartbeat" : ISODate("2017-02-02T17:25:55.622Z"),
          "lastHeartbeatRecv" : ISODate("2017-02-02T17:25:55.622Z"),
          "pingMs" : NumberLong(0),
          "syncingTo" : "mongo1:27017",
          "configVersion" : 3
        },
        {
          "_id" : 2,
          "name" : "mongo2:27017",
          "health" : 1,
          "state" : 1,
          "stateStr" : "PRIMARY",
          "uptime" : 3967,
          "optime" : {
            "ts" : Timestamp(1486052399, 1),
            "t" : NumberLong(5)
          },
          "optimeDate" : ISODate("2017-02-02T16:19:59Z"),
          "lastHeartbeat" : ISODate("2017-02-02T17:25:55.623Z"),
          "lastHeartbeatRecv" : ISODate("2017-02-02T17:25:55.623Z"),
          "pingMs" : NumberLong(0),
          "electionTime" : Timestamp(1486052398, 1),
          "electionDate" : ISODate("2017-02-02T16:19:58Z"),
          "configVersion" : 3
        }
      ],
      "ok" : 1
    }
    ```

### Context Broker configuration

For each server:

1. Configure the Firewall to block access from outside the local network except 
   for SSH and on local network for 1026

    ```bash
    $ nano /etc/sysconfig/iptables
    
    # Firewall configuration written by system-config-firewall
    # Manual customization of this file is not recommended.
    *filter
    :INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
    :FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
    :OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
    -A INPUT -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -p icmp -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -m state --state NEW -m tcp -p tcp --dport 1026 -s 10.0.64.0/25 -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -m state --state NEW -m tcp -p tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -j REJECT --reject-with icmp-host-prohibited
    -A FORWARD -j REJECT --reject-with icmp-host-prohibited
    COMMIT
    
    
    $ iptables-restore < /etc/sysconfig/iptables
    ```

1. Configure the hosts file to include local network hostname resolution

    ```bash
    $ nano /etc/hosts

    10.0.64.32   mongo1
    10.0.64.33   mongo2
    10.0.64.34   mongo3

    10.0.64.35   contextbroker1
    10.0.64.36   contextbroker2
    10.0.64.37   contextbroker3

    10.0.64.38   proxy1
    10.0.64.39   proxy2
    10.0.64.40   proxy3
    ```

1. Install the Context Broker with the following commands

    ```bash
    $ nano /etc/yum.repos.d/fiware.repo

    [fiware]
    name=Fiware Repository
    baseurl=http://repositories.lab.fiware.org/repo/rpm/$releasever
    gpgcheck=0
    enabled=1

    $ yum install contextBroker
    ```

1. Configure the Context Broker by listing all the mongodb hosts and the name
   of the replica set

    ```bash
    $ nano /etc/sysconfig/contextBroker

    BROKER_DATABASE_HOST=mongo1,mongo2,mongo3
    BROKER_DATABASE_RPLSET=contextBroker
    ```

1. Start the Context Broker

    ```bash
    $ /etc/init.d/contextBroker start
    ```

1. Test the Context Broker

    ```bash
    $ curl localhost:1026/version -s -S
    ```

### HA Proxy Configuration

1. Configure the Firewall to block access from outside the local network except
   for SSH and for the 1026 that will be used to load balance Context Broker
   traffic

    ```bash
    $ nano /etc/iptables.rules

    *filter
    :INPUT DROP [0:0]
    :FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
    :OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
    :LOGGING - [0:0]
    #COMMIT
    -A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -p icmp -s 10.0.64.0/25 -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -m state --state NEW -m tcp -p tcp --dport 1026 -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -p tcp -m state --state NEW -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
    COMMIT

    $ iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.rules
    ```

1. Configure the hosts file to include local network hostname resolution

    ```bash
    $ nano /etc/hosts

    10.0.64.32   mongo1
    10.0.64.33   mongo2
    10.0.64.34   mongo3

    10.0.64.35   contextbroker1
    10.0.64.36   contextbroker2
    10.0.64.37   contextbroker3

    10.0.64.38   proxy1
    10.0.64.39   proxy2
    10.0.64.40   proxy3
    ```

1. Install the HA Proxy

    ```bash
    $ sudo apt-get install haproxy
    ```

1. Configure the HA Proxy

    ```bash
    $ nano /etc/haproxy/haproxy.cfg

    frontend www
            bind *:1026
            default_backend ctx_pool

    backend ctx_pool
            balance roundrobin
            mode http
            server ctx1 contextbroker1:1026 check
            server ctx2 contextbroker2:1026 check
            server ctx3 contextbroker3:1026 check
    ```

1. Enable the automatic restart of HA Proxy on reboot

    ```bash
    $ nano /etc/default/haproxy

    ENABLED=1
    ```

1. Start the HA Proxy

    ```bash
    $ service haproxy reload
    ```

1. Test the HA Proxy

    ```bash
    $ curl localhost:1026/version -s -S
    ```

Commit message:

FIX MongoDB version in documentation

doc/manuals/admin/extra/ha.md, after:

# Create an Orion Context Broker cluster in High Availability

This documentation describe how to set-up on a generic infrastructure an
Orion Context Broker cluster in High Availability.

The architecture is made by three logical layers:
* A Load Balancer (implemented using HA Proxy)
* The Orion Context Broker
* The MongoDB ReplicaSet backend

The ideal solution for providing Active-Active access to the HA Proxy cluster
(and consequently to the Context Broker) is the adoption of a DNS service that
supports multiple IPs for a single name.
This will allow clients to use a round-robin solution to pick the actual 
host to connect with, in case of failure, the second will be used and so on.
The alternative is the usage of a VIP mechanism to provide Active-Passive access
to the HA Proxy cluster. In this case, the active instance of HA proxy will be
only one, in case of a failure of the active HA Proxy, one of the other HA Proxy
will take on the Virtual IP.

The picture below present the network architecture of the deployed cluster.

![ha.png](ha.png)

In the following we describe the different steps to configure such a cluster
on a set of virtual machines. In docker related documentation, we shortly
discuss how to create the same architecture leveraging on a
[Docker Swarm cluster](../../../../docker/docker_swarm.md).

## Services configuration

The configuration discussed below assume you have one server per each box
represented in the architecture. Of course, different layers, e.g. HA Proxy
and Context Broker can be combined together on a single server.

Requirements:
* 3 VMs running Centos for the Context Broker layer.
* 6 VMs running Ubuntu 16.04 LTS for the HA Proxy and MongoDB layers.

### MongoDB configuration

For each server:

1. Configure the Firewall to block access from outside the local network except
   for SSH and on local network for 27017

    ```bash
    $ nano /etc/iptables.rules

    *filter
    :INPUT DROP [0:0]
    :FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
    :OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
    :LOGGING - [0:0]
    #COMMIT
    -A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -p icmp -s 10.0.64.0/25 -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -m state --state NEW -m tcp -p tcp --dport 27017 -s 10.0.64.0/25 -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -p tcp -m state --state NEW -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
    COMMIT

    $ iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.rules
    ```

1. Configure the hosts file to include local network hostname resolution

    ```bash
    $ nano /etc/hosts

    10.0.64.32   mongo1
    10.0.64.33   mongo2
    10.0.64.34   mongo3

    10.0.64.35   contextbroker1
    10.0.64.36   contextbroker2
    10.0.64.37   contextbroker3

    10.0.64.38   proxy1
    10.0.64.39   proxy2
    10.0.64.40   proxy3
    ```

1. Install MongoDB 3.2 using the following commands. **WARNING:** this test was done when Mongo DB 3.2 was supported in Orion, test
   should be redone with the current version.

    ```bash
    $ sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv EA312927
    $ echo "deb http://repo.mongodb.org/apt/ubuntu xenial/mongodb-org/3.2 multiverse" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mongodb-org-3.2.list

    $ sudo apt-get update

    $ sudo apt-get install -y mongodb-org
    ```

1. Define the ReplicaSet configuration in the MongoDb configuration file
    ```/etc/mongodb.conf```, comment the ```bindIp``` directive to allow 
    connection from ```localhost``` and ```10.0.64.0/25``` network:

    ```bash
    $ nano /etc/mongodb.conf

    # mongod.conf

    # for documentation of all options, see:
    # http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/reference/configuration-options/

    # Where and how to store data.
    storage:
      dbPath: /var/lib/mongodb
      journal:
        enabled: true
    #  engine:
    #  mmapv1:
    #  wiredTiger:

    # where to write logging data.
    systemLog:
      destination: file
      logAppend: true
      path: /var/log/mongodb/mongod.log

    # network interfaces
    net:
      port: 27017
    #  bindIp: 10.0.64.32

    replication:
      replSetName: contextBroker
    ```

1. Start all the MongoDB

    ```bash
    service mongod start
    ```

On the primary node (you choose, during the set-up it was used `mongo1`):

1. Set the export lang

    ```bash
    EXPORT LC_ALL=C 
    ```

1. Connect to mongodb

    ```bash
    mongo
    ```

1. Provide the configuration of the Primary node

    ```
    config = {
      _id: "contextBroker",
      members: [
        {
          _id: 0,
          host: "mongo1:27017"
        }
      ]
    ```

1. Initialise the replica set

    ```
    rs.initiate(config);
    ```

1. Add the other nodes

    ```
    rs.add("mongo2:27017");
    rs.add("mongo3:27017");
    ```

1. Check that the status of the cluster is correct

    ```
    rs.status();

    {
      "set" : "contextBroker",
      "date" : ISODate("2017-02-02T17:25:57.605Z"),
      "myState" : 2,
      "term" : NumberLong(5),
      "syncingTo" : "mongo2:27017",
      "heartbeatIntervalMillis" : NumberLong(2000),
      "members" : [
        {
          "_id" : 0,
          "name" : "mongo1:27017",
          "health" : 1,
          "state" : 2,
          "stateStr" : "SECONDARY",
          "uptime" : 3967,
          "optime" : {
            "ts" : Timestamp(1486052399, 1),
            "t" : NumberLong(5)
          },
          "optimeDate" : ISODate("2017-02-02T16:19:59Z"),
          "syncingTo" : "mongo2:27017",
          "configVersion" : 3,
          "self" : true
        },
        {
          "_id" : 1,
          "name" : "mongo3:27017",
          "health" : 1,
          "state" : 2,
          "stateStr" : "SECONDARY",
          "uptime" : 3929,
          "optime" : {
            "ts" : Timestamp(1486052399, 1),
            "t" : NumberLong(5)
          },
          "optimeDate" : ISODate("2017-02-02T16:19:59Z"),
          "lastHeartbeat" : ISODate("2017-02-02T17:25:55.622Z"),
          "lastHeartbeatRecv" : ISODate("2017-02-02T17:25:55.622Z"),
          "pingMs" : NumberLong(0),
          "syncingTo" : "mongo1:27017",
          "configVersion" : 3
        },
        {
          "_id" : 2,
          "name" : "mongo2:27017",
          "health" : 1,
          "state" : 1,
          "stateStr" : "PRIMARY",
          "uptime" : 3967,
          "optime" : {
            "ts" : Timestamp(1486052399, 1),
            "t" : NumberLong(5)
          },
          "optimeDate" : ISODate("2017-02-02T16:19:59Z"),
          "lastHeartbeat" : ISODate("2017-02-02T17:25:55.623Z"),
          "lastHeartbeatRecv" : ISODate("2017-02-02T17:25:55.623Z"),
          "pingMs" : NumberLong(0),
          "electionTime" : Timestamp(1486052398, 1),
          "electionDate" : ISODate("2017-02-02T16:19:58Z"),
          "configVersion" : 3
        }
      ],
      "ok" : 1
    }
    ```

### Context Broker configuration

For each server:

1. Configure the Firewall to block access from outside the local network except 
   for SSH and on local network for 1026

    ```bash
    $ nano /etc/sysconfig/iptables
    
    # Firewall configuration written by system-config-firewall
    # Manual customization of this file is not recommended.
    *filter
    :INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
    :FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
    :OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
    -A INPUT -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -p icmp -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -m state --state NEW -m tcp -p tcp --dport 1026 -s 10.0.64.0/25 -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -m state --state NEW -m tcp -p tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -j REJECT --reject-with icmp-host-prohibited
    -A FORWARD -j REJECT --reject-with icmp-host-prohibited
    COMMIT
    
    
    $ iptables-restore < /etc/sysconfig/iptables
    ```

1. Configure the hosts file to include local network hostname resolution

    ```bash
    $ nano /etc/hosts

    10.0.64.32   mongo1
    10.0.64.33   mongo2
    10.0.64.34   mongo3

    10.0.64.35   contextbroker1
    10.0.64.36   contextbroker2
    10.0.64.37   contextbroker3

    10.0.64.38   proxy1
    10.0.64.39   proxy2
    10.0.64.40   proxy3
    ```

1. Install the Context Broker with the following commands

    ```bash
    $ nano /etc/yum.repos.d/fiware.repo

    [fiware]
    name=Fiware Repository
    baseurl=http://repositories.lab.fiware.org/repo/rpm/$releasever
    gpgcheck=0
    enabled=1

    $ yum install contextBroker
    ```

1. Configure the Context Broker by listing all the mongodb hosts and the name
   of the replica set

    ```bash
    $ nano /etc/sysconfig/contextBroker

    BROKER_DATABASE_HOST=mongo1,mongo2,mongo3
    BROKER_DATABASE_RPLSET=contextBroker
    ```

1. Start the Context Broker

    ```bash
    $ /etc/init.d/contextBroker start
    ```

1. Test the Context Broker

    ```bash
    $ curl localhost:1026/version -s -S
    ```

### HA Proxy Configuration

1. Configure the Firewall to block access from outside the local network except
   for SSH and for the 1026 that will be used to load balance Context Broker
   traffic

    ```bash
    $ nano /etc/iptables.rules

    *filter
    :INPUT DROP [0:0]
    :FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
    :OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
    :LOGGING - [0:0]
    #COMMIT
    -A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -p icmp -s 10.0.64.0/25 -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -m state --state NEW -m tcp -p tcp --dport 1026 -j ACCEPT
    -A INPUT -p tcp -m state --state NEW -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
    COMMIT

    $ iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.rules
    ```

1. Configure the hosts file to include local network hostname resolution

    ```bash
    $ nano /etc/hosts

    10.0.64.32   mongo1
    10.0.64.33   mongo2
    10.0.64.34   mongo3

    10.0.64.35   contextbroker1
    10.0.64.36   contextbroker2
    10.0.64.37   contextbroker3

    10.0.64.38   proxy1
    10.0.64.39   proxy2
    10.0.64.40   proxy3
    ```

1. Install the HA Proxy

    ```bash
    $ sudo apt-get install haproxy
    ```

1. Configure the HA Proxy

    ```bash
    $ nano /etc/haproxy/haproxy.cfg

    frontend www
            bind *:1026
            default_backend ctx_pool

    backend ctx_pool
            balance roundrobin
            mode http
            server ctx1 contextbroker1:1026 check
            server ctx2 contextbroker2:1026 check
            server ctx3 contextbroker3:1026 check
    ```

1. Enable the automatic restart of HA Proxy on reboot

    ```bash
    $ nano /etc/default/haproxy

    ENABLED=1
    ```

1. Start the HA Proxy

    ```bash
    $ service haproxy reload
    ```

1. Test the HA Proxy

    ```bash
    $ curl localhost:1026/version -s -S
    ```
