doc/manuals-ld/installation-guide-debian9.md, before:

# Orion-LD Installation Guide for Debian 9

In order to write this guide, Debian 9 (Desktop image) was downloaded from [here](https://cdimage.debian.org/mirror/cdimage/archive/9.4.0/amd64/iso-cd/debian-9.4.0-amd64-netinst.iso), and installed as a virtual machine under VMWare.

## Sudo user installation

In many of the following steps, commands need to be executed as superuser (root).
To be able to use the _sudo_ command in Debian, do the following:

```bash
apt-get update
apt-get install sudo
adduser <USERNAME> sudo
# Restart the OS
reboot
```

## Installation of dependency packages

To be installed via package manager:
* boost (plenty of libraries) v1.62
* libssl1.0
* libcurl4
* libsasl2
* libgcrypt
* libuuid

Now, a whole bunch of packages are to be installed. Personally I prefer *aptitude* over *apt-get*, so the first thing I do is to install *aptitude*:

```bash
sudo apt-get install aptitude
```

Tools needed for compilation and testing:

```bash
sudo aptitude install build-essential cmake scons curl
```

Libraries that aren't built from source code:

```bash
sudo aptitude install libssl1.0-dev libssl-dev gnutls-dev libcurl4-gnutls-dev libsasl2-dev libgcrypt-dev uuid-dev libboost-dev libboost-regex-dev libboost-thread-dev libboost-filesystem-dev
```

## Download and build dependency libraries from source code
Some libraries are built from source code and those sources must be downloaded and compiled.
* Mongo Driver:   legacy-1.1.2
* libmicrohttpd:  0.9.48
* rapidjson:      1.0.2
* kbase:          0.3
* klog:           0.3
* kalloc:         0.3
* kjson:          0.3
* khash:          0.3
* gtest:          1.5 (needed for unit testing only)
* gmock:          1.5 (needed for unit testing only)

For those libraries that are cloned repositories, I myself keep all repositories in a directory I call *git* directly under my home directory: `~/git`.
This guide follows that example, so, let's start by creating the directory for repositories:

```bash
mkdir ~/git
```

And, as `git` will be used, we might as well install it:

```bash
sudo aptitude install git
```

### Mongo Driver
As Orion-LD is based on Orion, and Orion uses the old Legacy C++ driver of the mongo client library, Orion-LD also uses that old library.
Plans are to migrate, at least all the NGSI-LD requests to the newest C driver of the mongo client, but that work has still not commenced.

To download, build and install:

```bash
sudo mkdir /opt/mongoclient
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /opt/mongoclient  # (1)
cd /opt/mongoclient
wget https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-cxx-driver/archive/legacy-1.1.2.tar.gz
tar xfvz legacy-1.1.2.tar.gz
cd mongo-cxx-driver-legacy-1.1.2
scons --disable-warnings-as-errors --ssl --use-sasl-client
sudo scons install --prefix=/usr/local --disable-warnings-as-errors --ssl --use-sasl-client
```
(1) To make you the owner of a file, you need to state your username and group.
    The env var **USER** already exists, but if you want to cut 'n paste this "sudo chown" command, you'll need to create the env var **GROUP**, to reflect your group. In my case, I do this:
```bash
export GROUP=kz
```

After this, you should have the library *libmongoclient.a* under `/usr/local/lib/` and the header directory *mongo* under `/usr/local/include/`.

### libmicrohttpd

*libmicrohttpd* is the library that takes care of incoming connections and http/https.
We use an older version of it, soon to be repaced by the latest release.
This is how you install libmicrohttpd from source code:

```bash
sudo mkdir /opt/libmicrohttpd
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /opt/libmicrohttpd
cd /opt/libmicrohttpd
wget http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/libmicrohttpd/libmicrohttpd-0.9.48.tar.gz
tar xvf libmicrohttpd-0.9.48.tar.gz
cd libmicrohttpd-0.9.48
./configure --disable-messages --disable-postprocessor --disable-dauth
make
sudo make install
```

### rapidjson

*rapidjson* is the JSON parser used by the NGSI APIv2 implementation.
AS Orion-LD includes NGSI APIv2 as well, we need this library.
Like libmicrohttpd, we use an older version of the library.
This is	how to install it from source code:

```bash
sudo mkdir /opt/rapidjson
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /opt/rapidjson
cd /opt/rapidjson
wget https://github.com/miloyip/rapidjson/archive/v1.0.2.tar.gz
tar xfvz v1.0.2.tar.gz
sudo mv rapidjson-1.0.2/include/rapidjson/ /usr/local/include
```

### kbase

*kbase* is a collection of basic functionality, like string handling, that is used by the rest of the "K-libs".
To download, build and install:

```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://gitlab.com/kzangeli/kbase.git
cd kbase
git checkout release/0.3
make install
```

### klog

*klog* is a library for logging, used by the rest of the "K-libs".
To download, build and install:

```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://gitlab.com/kzangeli/klog.git
cd klog
git checkout release/0.3
make install
```


### kalloc

*kalloc* is a library that provides faster allocation by avoiding calls to `malloc`.
The library allocates *big* buffers by calling `malloc` and then gives out portions of this big allocated buffer.
The portions cannot be freed, only the *big* buffers allocated via `malloc` and that is done when the kalloc instance dies.
For a context broker, that treats every request in a separate thread, this is ideal from a performance point of view.

To download, build and install:
```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://gitlab.com/kzangeli/kalloc.git
cd kalloc
git checkout release/0.3
make install
```

### kjson

*kjson* is a JSON parser that builds a simple-to-use KjNode tree from the textual JSON input.
It is very easy to use (linked lists) and many times faster than rapidjson, which APIv2 uses.
The new implementation for NGSI-LD uses `kjson` instead of rapidjson.

To download, build and install:
```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://gitlab.com/kzangeli/kjson.git
cd kjson
git checkout release/0.3
make install
```

### khash

*khash* is a library that provides a hash table implementation. This hash table is used for the Context Cache of Orion-LD.

To download, build and install:
```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://gitlab.com/kzangeli/khash.git
cd khash
git checkout release/0.3
make install
```

## Source code of Orion-LD

Now that we have all the dependencies installed, it's time to clone the Orion-LD repository:

```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://github.com/FIWARE/context.Orion-LD.git
cd context.Orion-LD
make install
```

At the end of `make install`, the makefile wants to copy the executable (orionld) to /usr/bin, and more files under /usr.
As the compilation hasn't been (and shouldn't be) run as root (sudo), these copies will fail.
So, you have two options here:

&nbsp;1.  Create the files by hand, using `sudo` and then set yourself as owner of the files:
```bash
sudo touch /usr/bin/orionld
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /usr/bin/orionld
sudo touch /etc/init.d/orionld
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /etc/init.d/orionld
sudo touch /etc/default/orionld
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /etc/default/orionld
```

&nbsp;2.  Run `sudo make install` and let the files be owned by root.

Personally I prefer option 1. I really dislike to use `sudo`.

You now have *orionld*, the NGSI-LD Context Broker compiled, installed and ready to work!

Except, of course, you need to install the MongoDB server as well.
So far, we have only installed the mongo client library, so that *orionld* can speak to the MongoDB server.

## Install the MongoDB server
If using a docker image, the MongoDB server comes as part of the docker, but if docker is not used, then the MongoDB server must be installed.
For this, preser refer to the [MongoDB documentation](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-debian/).
The version 4.0 is recommended, but both older and newer should work just fine.

This is what the MongoDB documentation tells us to do to install MongoDB server 4.0 under Debian 9.

```bash
wget -qO - https://www.mongodb.org/static/pgp/server-4.2.asc | sudo apt-key add -
apt-get install gnupg

wget -qO - https://www.mongodb.org/static/pgp/server-4.2.asc |  sudo apt-key add -
echo "deb http://repo.mongodb.org/apt/debian stretch/mongodb-org/4.2 main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mongodb-org-4.2.list

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y mongodb-org
echo "mongodb-org hold" | sudo dpkg --set-selections
echo "mongodb-org-server hold" | sudo dpkg --set-selections
echo "mongodb-org-shell hold" | sudo dpkg --set-selections
echo "mongodb-org-mongos hold" | sudo dpkg --set-selections
echo "mongodb-org-tools hold" | sudo dpkg --set-selections
sudo systemctl start mongod
sudo systemctl status mongod
sudo systemctl enable mongod
```

For more detail on the MongoDB installation process, or if something goes wrong, please refer to the [MongoDB documentation](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-debian/)

Commit message:

task/mqtt (#410)
* MQT Notifications

* CHANGES_NEXT_RELEASE

* doc on MQTT notifications

* Added Telefonica copyright headers to two python scripts under scripts/, as the compliance tool forces me to do so ...

* enabling mqtt and mosquitto in debian docker

* desperate attempt removing moquitto from the packages to install

* Another desperation - removed apt install of python paho mqtt

* initializing r

* logMsg

* Installing MQTT stuff

* Removing python-paho-mqtt in yet another desperate attempt

* Installing paho-mgtt-python using python-pip

* Attempt to start mosquitto

* a few fixes in docs

* Removed installation of mosquitto, as it doesn't work inside the debian travis :(

* Taking care of functest disabling for TRAVIS inside the functest suite

* Special traces when inside travis

* Debugging travid env vars

* Made the env var TRAVIS work inside travis ...

* skipping functest ngsild_subscription_with_mqtt_notification_01.test

doc/manuals-ld/installation-guide-debian9.md, after:

# Orion-LD Installation Guide for Debian 9

In order to write this guide, Debian 9 (Desktop image) was downloaded from [here](https://cdimage.debian.org/mirror/cdimage/archive/9.4.0/amd64/iso-cd/debian-9.4.0-amd64-netinst.iso), and installed as a virtual machine under VMWare.

## Sudo user installation

In many of the following steps, commands need to be executed as superuser (root).
To be able to use the _sudo_ command in Debian, do the following:

```bash
apt-get update
apt-get install sudo
adduser <USERNAME> sudo
# Restart the OS
reboot
```

## Installation of dependency packages

To be installed via package manager:
* boost (plenty of libraries) v1.62
* libssl1.0
* libcurl4
* libsasl2
* libgcrypt
* libuuid

Now, a whole bunch of packages are to be installed. Personally I prefer *aptitude* over *apt-get*, so the first thing I do is to install *aptitude*:

```bash
sudo apt-get install aptitude
```

Tools needed for compilation and testing:

```bash
sudo aptitude install build-essential cmake scons curl
```

Libraries that aren't built from source code:

```bash
sudo aptitude install libssl1.0-dev libssl-dev gnutls-dev libcurl4-gnutls-dev libsasl2-dev libgcrypt-dev uuid-dev libboost-dev libboost-regex-dev libboost-thread-dev libboost-filesystem-dev
```

## Download and build dependency libraries from source code
Some libraries are built from source code and those sources must be downloaded and compiled.
* Mongo Driver:   legacy-1.1.2
* libmicrohttpd:  0.9.48
* rapidjson:      1.0.2
* kbase:          0.3
* klog:           0.3
* kalloc:         0.3
* kjson:          0.3
* khash:          0.3
* gtest:          1.5 (needed for unit testing only)
* gmock:          1.5 (needed for unit testing only)

For those libraries that are cloned repositories, I myself keep all repositories in a directory I call *git* directly under my home directory: `~/git`.
This guide follows that example, so, let's start by creating the directory for repositories:

```bash
mkdir ~/git
```

And, as `git` will be used, we might as well install it:

```bash
sudo aptitude install git
```

### Mongo Driver
As Orion-LD is based on Orion, and Orion uses the old Legacy C++ driver of the mongo client library, Orion-LD also uses that old library.
Plans are to migrate, at least all the NGSI-LD requests to the newest C driver of the mongo client, but that work has still not commenced.

To download, build and install:

```bash
sudo mkdir /opt/mongoclient
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /opt/mongoclient  # (1)
cd /opt/mongoclient
wget https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-cxx-driver/archive/legacy-1.1.2.tar.gz
tar xfvz legacy-1.1.2.tar.gz
cd mongo-cxx-driver-legacy-1.1.2
scons --disable-warnings-as-errors --ssl --use-sasl-client
sudo scons install --prefix=/usr/local --disable-warnings-as-errors --ssl --use-sasl-client
```
(1) To make you the owner of a file, you need to state your username and group.
    The env var **USER** already exists, but if you want to cut 'n paste this "sudo chown" command, you'll need to create the env var **GROUP**, to reflect your group. In my case, I do this:
```bash
export GROUP=kz
```

After this, you should have the library *libmongoclient.a* under `/usr/local/lib/` and the header directory *mongo* under `/usr/local/include/`.

### libmicrohttpd

*libmicrohttpd* is the library that takes care of incoming connections and http/https.
We use an older version of it, soon to be repaced by the latest release.
This is how you install libmicrohttpd from source code:

```bash
sudo mkdir /opt/libmicrohttpd
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /opt/libmicrohttpd
cd /opt/libmicrohttpd
wget http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/libmicrohttpd/libmicrohttpd-0.9.48.tar.gz
tar xvf libmicrohttpd-0.9.48.tar.gz
cd libmicrohttpd-0.9.48
./configure --disable-messages --disable-postprocessor --disable-dauth
make
sudo make install
```

### rapidjson

*rapidjson* is the JSON parser used by the NGSI APIv2 implementation.
AS Orion-LD includes NGSI APIv2 as well, we need this library.
Like libmicrohttpd, we use an older version of the library.
This is	how to install it from source code:

```bash
sudo mkdir /opt/rapidjson
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /opt/rapidjson
cd /opt/rapidjson
wget https://github.com/miloyip/rapidjson/archive/v1.0.2.tar.gz
tar xfvz v1.0.2.tar.gz
sudo mv rapidjson-1.0.2/include/rapidjson/ /usr/local/include
```

### kbase

*kbase* is a collection of basic functionality, like string handling, that is used by the rest of the "K-libs".
To download, build and install:

```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://gitlab.com/kzangeli/kbase.git
cd kbase
git checkout release/0.3
make install
```

### klog

*klog* is a library for logging, used by the rest of the "K-libs".
To download, build and install:

```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://gitlab.com/kzangeli/klog.git
cd klog
git checkout release/0.3
make install
```


### kalloc

*kalloc* is a library that provides faster allocation by avoiding calls to `malloc`.
The library allocates *big* buffers by calling `malloc` and then gives out portions of this big allocated buffer.
The portions cannot be freed, only the *big* buffers allocated via `malloc` and that is done when the kalloc instance dies.
For a context broker, that treats every request in a separate thread, this is ideal from a performance point of view.

To download, build and install:
```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://gitlab.com/kzangeli/kalloc.git
cd kalloc
git checkout release/0.3
make install
```

### kjson

*kjson* is a JSON parser that builds a simple-to-use KjNode tree from the textual JSON input.
It is very easy to use (linked lists) and many times faster than rapidjson, which APIv2 uses.
The new implementation for NGSI-LD uses `kjson` instead of rapidjson.

To download, build and install:
```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://gitlab.com/kzangeli/kjson.git
cd kjson
git checkout release/0.3
make install
```

### khash

*khash* is a library that provides a hash table implementation. This hash table is used for the Context Cache of Orion-LD.

To download, build and install:
```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://gitlab.com/kzangeli/khash.git
cd khash
git checkout release/0.3
make install
```

## Source code of Orion-LD

Now that we have all the dependencies installed, it's time to clone the Orion-LD repository:

```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://github.com/FIWARE/context.Orion-LD.git
cd context.Orion-LD
make install
```

At the end of `make install`, the makefile wants to copy the executable (orionld) to /usr/bin, and more files under /usr.
As the compilation hasn't been (and shouldn't be) run as root (sudo), these copies will fail.
So, you have two options here:

&nbsp;1.  Create the files by hand, using `sudo` and then set yourself as owner of the files:
```bash
sudo touch /usr/bin/orionld
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /usr/bin/orionld
sudo touch /etc/init.d/orionld
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /etc/init.d/orionld
sudo touch /etc/default/orionld
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /etc/default/orionld
```

&nbsp;2.  Run `sudo make install` and let the files be owned by root.

Personally I prefer option 1. I really dislike to use `sudo`.

You now have *orionld*, the NGSI-LD Context Broker compiled, installed and ready to work!

Except, of course, you need to install the MongoDB server as well.
So far, we have only installed the mongo client library, so that *orionld* can speak to the MongoDB server.

## Install the MongoDB server
If using a docker image, the MongoDB server comes as part of the docker, but if docker is not used, then the MongoDB server must be installed.
For this, preser refer to the [MongoDB documentation](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-debian/).
The version 4.0 is recommended, but both older and newer should work just fine.

This is what the MongoDB documentation tells us to do to install MongoDB server 4.2 under Debian 9.
The version 4.2 has been tested to work just fine in debian 9.

```bash
wget -qO - https://www.mongodb.org/static/pgp/server-4.2.asc | sudo apt-key add -
apt-get install gnupg

wget -qO - https://www.mongodb.org/static/pgp/server-4.2.asc |  sudo apt-key add -
echo "deb http://repo.mongodb.org/apt/debian stretch/mongodb-org/4.2 main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mongodb-org-4.2.list

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y mongodb-org
echo "mongodb-org hold" | sudo dpkg --set-selections
echo "mongodb-org-server hold" | sudo dpkg --set-selections
echo "mongodb-org-shell hold" | sudo dpkg --set-selections
echo "mongodb-org-mongos hold" | sudo dpkg --set-selections
echo "mongodb-org-tools hold" | sudo dpkg --set-selections
sudo systemctl start mongod
sudo systemctl status mongod
sudo systemctl enable mongod
```

For more detail on the MongoDB installation process, or if something goes wrong, please refer to the [MongoDB documentation](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-debian/)
