doc/manuals-ld/installation-guide-ubuntu-18.04.3.md, before:

# Orion-LD Installation Guide for Ubuntu 18.04.3

In order to write this guide, Ubuntu 18.04.3 LTS (Desktop image) was downloaded from [here](http://releases.ubuntu.com/18.04/), and installed as a virtual machine under VMWare.

## Installation of dependency packages

To be installed via package manager:
* boost (plenty of libraries)
* libssl1.0
* libcurl4
* libsasl2
* libgcrypt
* libuuid

Now, a whole bunch of packages are to be installed. Personally I prefer *aptitude* over *apt-get*, so the first thing I do is to install *aptitude*:

```bash
sudo apt-get install aptitude
```

Tools needed for compilation and testing:

```bash
sudo aptitude install build-essential cmake scons curl
```

Libraries that aren't built from source code:

```bash
sudo aptitude install libssl1.0-dev gnutls-dev libcurl4-gnutls-dev libsasl2-dev \
                      libgcrypt-dev uuid-dev libboost-dev libboost-regex-dev libboost-thread-dev \
                      libboost-filesystem-dev

```

## Download and build dependency libraries from source code
Some libraries are built from source code and those sources must be downloaded and compiled.
* Mongo Driver:   legacy-1.1.2
* libmicrohttpd:  0.9.48
* rapidjson:      1.0.2
* kbase:          0.2
* klog:           0.2
* kalloc:         0.2
* kjson:          0.2
* khash:          0.2
* gtest:          1.5 (needed for unit testing only)
* gmock:          1.5 (needed for unit testing only)

For those libraries that are cloned repositories, I myself keep all repositories in a directory I call *git* directly under my home directory: `~/git`.
For this guide to work, you will need to do the same.
So, let's start by creating the directory for repositories:

```bash
mkdir ~/git
```

And, as `git` will be used, we might as well install it:

```bash
sudo aptitude install git
```

### Mongo Driver
As Orion-LD is based on Orion, and Orion uses the old Legacy C++ driver of the mongo client library, Orion-LD also uses that old library.
Plans are to migrate, at least all the NGSI-LD requests to the newest C driver of the mongo client, but that work has still not commenced.

To download, build and install:

```bash
sudo mkdir /opt/mongoclient
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /opt/mongoclient  # (1)
cd /opt/mongoclient
wget https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-cxx-driver/archive/legacy-1.1.2.tar.gz
tar xfvz legacy-1.1.2.tar.gz
cd mongo-cxx-driver-legacy-1.1.2
scons --disable-warnings-as-errors --ssl --use-sasl-client
sudo scons install --prefix=/usr/local --disable-warnings-as-errors --ssl --use-sasl-client
```
(1) To make you the owner of a file, you need to state your username and group.
    The env var **USER** already exists, but if you want to cut 'n paste this "sudo chown" command, you'll need to create the env var **GROUP**, to reflect your group. In my case, I do this:
```bash
export GROUP=kz
```

After this, you should have the library *libmongoclient.a* under `/usr/local/lib/` and the header directory *mongo* under `/usr/local/include/`.

### libmicrohttpd

*libmicrohttpd* is the library that takes care of incoming connections and http/https.
We use an older version of it, soon to be repaced by the latest release.
This is how you install libmicrohttpd from source code:

```bash
sudo mkdir /opt/libmicrohttpd
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /opt/libmicrohttpd
cd /opt/libmicrohttpd
wget http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/libmicrohttpd/libmicrohttpd-0.9.48.tar.gz
tar xvf libmicrohttpd-0.9.48.tar.gz
cd libmicrohttpd-0.9.48
./configure --disable-messages --disable-postprocessor --disable-dauth
make
sudo make install
```

### rapidjson

*rapidjson* is the JSON parser used by the NGSI APIv2 implementation.
AS Orion-LD includes NGSI APIv2 as well, we need this library.
Like libmicrohttpd, we use an older version of the library.
This is	how to install it from source code:

```bash
sudo mkdir /opt/rapidjson
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /opt/rapidjson
cd /opt/rapidjson
wget https://github.com/miloyip/rapidjson/archive/v1.0.2.tar.gz
tar xfvz v1.0.2.tar.gz
sudo mv rapidjson-1.0.2/include/rapidjson/ /usr/local/include
```

### kbase

*kbase* is a collection of basic functionality, like string handling, that is used by the rest of the "K-libs".
To download, build and install:

```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://gitlab.com/kzangeli/kbase.git
cd kbase
git checkout release/0.5
make install
```

### klog

*klog* is a library for logging, used by the rest of the "K-libs".
To download, build and install:

```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://gitlab.com/kzangeli/klog.git
cd klog
git checkout release/0.5
make install
```


### kalloc

*kalloc* is a library that provides faster allocation by avoiding calls to `malloc`.
The library allocates *big* buffers by calling `malloc` and then gives out portions of this big allocated buffer.
The portions cannot be freed, only the *big* buffers allocated via `malloc` and that is done when the kalloc instance dies.
For a context broker, that treats every request in a separate thread, this is ideal from a performance point of view. 

To download, build and install:
```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://gitlab.com/kzangeli/kalloc.git
cd kalloc
git checkout release/0.5
make install
```

### kjson

*kjson* is a JSON parser that builds a simple-to-use KjNode tree from the textual JSON input.
It is very easy to use (linked lists) and many times faster than rapidjson, which APIv2 uses.
The new implementation for NGSI-LD uses `kjson` instead of rapidjson.

To download, build and install:
```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://gitlab.com/kzangeli/kjson.git
cd kjson
git checkout release/0.5
make install
```

### khash

*khash* is a library that provides a hash table implementation. This hash table is used for the Context Cache of Orion-LD.

To download, build and install:
```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://gitlab.com/kzangeli/khash.git
cd khash
git checkout release/0.5
make install
```

### MQTT (Paho & Mosquitto)

*MQTT* is a machine-to-machine (M2M)/"Internet of Things" connectivity protocol. It was designed as an extremely lightweight publish/subscribe messaging transport. It is useful for connections with remote locations where a small code footprint is required and/or network bandwidth is at a premium. Source: https://mqtt.org

To download, build and install:

#### Eclipse Paho

The *Eclipse Paho* project provides open-source client implementations of MQTT and MQTT-SN messaging protocols aimed at new, existing, and emerging applications for the Internet of Things (IoT). Source: https://www.eclipse.org/paho

```bash
apt-get -y install doxygen
apt-get -y install graphviz
rm -f /usr/local/lib/libpaho*
cd ~/git
git clone https://github.com/eclipse/paho.mqtt.c.git
cd paho.mqtt.c
git fetch -a
git checkout tags/v1.3.1
make html
make
sudo make install

# Python library
pip install paho-mqtt
```
#### Eclipse Mosquitto

*Eclipse Mosquitto* is an open source (EPL/EDL licensed) message broker that implements the MQTT protocol versions 5.0, 3.1.1 and 3.1. Mosquitto is lightweight and is suitable for use on all devices from low power single board computers to full servers. Source: https://mosquitto.org

```bash
sudo apt-get install mosquitto
sudo systemctl start mosquitto

# If you wish to enable `mosquitto` to have it start automatically on system reboot:
# [ If you prefer to use another MQTT broker, that's fine too. But, bear in mind that only mosquitto has been tested ]
sudo systemctl enable mosquitto
```


## Source code of Orion-LD

Now that we have all the dependencies installed, it's time to clone the Orion-LD repository:

```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://github.com/FIWARE/context.Orion-LD.git
cd context.Orion-LD
make install
```

At the end of `make install`, the makefile wants to copy the executable (orionld) to /usr/bin, and more files under /usr.
As the compilation hasn't been (and shouldn't be) run as root (sudo), these copies will fail.
So, you have two options here:

&nbsp;1.  Create the files by hand, using `sudo` and then set yourself as owner of the files:
```bash
sudo touch /usr/bin/orionld
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /usr/bin/orionld
sudo touch /etc/init.d/orionld
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /etc/init.d/orionld
sudo touch /etc/default/orionld
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /etc/default/orionld
```

&nbsp;2.  Run `sudo make install` and let the files be owned by root.

Personally I prefer option 1. I really dislike to use `sudo`.

You now have *orionld*, the NGSI-LD Context Broker compiled, installed and ready to work!

Except, of course, you need to install the MongoDB server as well.
So far, we have only installed the mongo client library, so that *orionld* can speak to the MongoDB server.

## Install the MongoDB server
If using a docker image, the MongoDB server comes as part of the docker, but if docker is not used, then the MongoDB server must be installed.
For this, preser refer to the [MongoDB documentation](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-ubuntu/).
The version 4.0 is recommended, but both older and newer should work just fine.

This is what the MongoDB documentation tells us to do to install MongoDB server 4.0 under Ubuntu 18.04:

```bash
# Import the MongoDB public GPG Key
wget -qO - https://www.mongodb.org/static/pgp/server-4.0.asc | sudo apt-key add -
# Should respond with "OK"

# Create the list file /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mongodb-org-4.0.list
echo "deb [ arch=amd64 ] https://repo.mongodb.org/apt/ubuntu bionic/mongodb-org/4.0 multiverse" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mongodb-org-4.0.list

# Reload local package database
sudo apt-get update

# Install the MongoDB packages
sudo apt-get install -y mongodb-org

# Once the installation is done, start MongoDB before starting Orionld
sudo systemctl start mongod

```

For more detail on the MongoDB installation process, or if something goes wrong, please refer to the [MongoDB documentation](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-ubuntu/)

### Installation of Postgres 12 on Ubuntu 18.04

Add the postgres repo
```bash
wget --quiet -O - https://www.postgresql.org/media/keys/ACCC4CF8.asc | sudo apt-key add -
echo "deb http://apt.postgresql.org/pub/repos/apt/ `lsb_release -cs`-pgdg main" |sudo tee  /etc/apt/sources.list.d/pgdg.list
```

#### Install Postgres
```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt -y install postgresql-12 postgresql-client-12
sudo apt install postgis postgresql-12-postgis-3
sudo apt-get install postgresql-12-postgis-3-scripts
```

Add Postgres development libraries
```bash
sudo apt-get install libpq-dev
```

Add timescale db and posgis
```bash
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:timescale/timescaledb-ppa
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt install timescaledb-postgresql-12
```

Command for checking postgres
```bash
systemctl status postgresql.service
```
The output should be something like this:
```text
postgresql.service - PostgreSQL RDBMS
    Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/postgresql.service; enabled; vendor preset: enabled)
    Active: active (exited) since Sun 2019-10-06 10:23:46 UTC; 6min ago
  Main PID: 8159 (code=exited, status=0/SUCCESS)
     Tasks: 0 (limit: 2362)
    CGroup: /system.slice/postgresql.service
 Oct 06 10:23:46 ubuntu18 systemd[1]: Starting PostgreSQL RDBMS…
 Oct 06 10:23:46 ubuntu18 systemd[1]: Started PostgreSQL RDBMS.
```

```bash
systemctl status postgresql@12-main.service 
```
The output should be something like this:
```text
postgresql@12-main.service - PostgreSQL Cluster 12-main
    Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/postgresql@.service; indirect; vendor preset: enabled)
    Active: active (running) since Sun 2019-10-06 10:23:49 UTC; 5min ago
  Main PID: 9242 (postgres)
     Tasks: 7 (limit: 2362)
    CGroup: /system.slice/system-postgresql.slice/postgresql@12-main.service
            ├─9242 /usr/lib/postgresql/12/bin/postgres -D /var/lib/postgresql/12/main -c config_file=/etc/postgresql/12/main/postgresql.conf
            ├─9254 postgres: 12/main: checkpointer   
            ├─9255 postgres: 12/main: background writer   
            ├─9256 postgres: 12/main: walwriter   
            ├─9257 postgres: 12/main: autovacuum launcher   
            ├─9258 postgres: 12/main: stats collector   
            └─9259 postgres: 12/main: logical replication launcher   
 Oct 06 10:23:47 ubuntu18 systemd[1]: Starting PostgreSQL Cluster 12-main…
 Oct 06 10:23:49 ubuntu18 systemd[1]: Started PostgreSQL Cluster 12-main.
 ```
 
 Enable postgres
 ```bash
 systemctl is-enabled postgresql
```

Edit postgresql.conf
```bash
sudo nano /etc/postgresql/12/main/postgresql.conf
```
Add this line and save it
```bash
shared_preload_libraries = 'timescaledb'
```

- Where exactly?
  - anywhere?
  - at the end of the file?

- Do I need to restart the postgres daemon after this edit? Send a singal to it?  Nothing at all?

Commit message:

Preparing for functests for temporal operations - using postgres and not Mintaka

doc/manuals-ld/installation-guide-ubuntu-18.04.3.md, after:

# Orion-LD Installation Guide for Ubuntu 18.04.3

In order to write this guide, Ubuntu 18.04.3 LTS (Desktop image) was downloaded from [here](http://releases.ubuntu.com/18.04/), and installed as a virtual machine under VMWare.

## Installation of dependency packages

To be installed via package manager:
* boost (plenty of libraries)
* libssl1.0
* libcurl4
* libsasl2
* libgcrypt
* libuuid

Now, a whole bunch of packages are to be installed. Personally I prefer *aptitude* over *apt-get*, so the first thing I do is to install *aptitude*:

```bash
sudo apt-get install aptitude
```

Tools needed for compilation and testing:

```bash
sudo aptitude install build-essential cmake scons curl
```

Libraries that aren't built from source code:

```bash
sudo aptitude install libssl1.0-dev gnutls-dev libcurl4-gnutls-dev libsasl2-dev \
                      libgcrypt-dev uuid-dev libboost-dev libboost-regex-dev libboost-thread-dev \
                      libboost-filesystem-dev

```

## Download and build dependency libraries from source code
Some libraries are built from source code and those sources must be downloaded and compiled.
* Mongo Driver:   legacy-1.1.2
* libmicrohttpd:  0.9.48
* rapidjson:      1.0.2
* kbase:          0.2
* klog:           0.2
* kalloc:         0.2
* kjson:          0.2
* khash:          0.2
* gtest:          1.5 (needed for unit testing only)
* gmock:          1.5 (needed for unit testing only)

For those libraries that are cloned repositories, I myself keep all repositories in a directory I call *git* directly under my home directory: `~/git`.
For this guide to work, you will need to do the same.
So, let's start by creating the directory for repositories:

```bash
mkdir ~/git
```

And, as `git` will be used, we might as well install it:

```bash
sudo aptitude install git
```

### Mongo Driver
As Orion-LD is based on Orion, and Orion uses the old Legacy C++ driver of the mongo client library, Orion-LD also uses that old library.
Plans are to migrate, at least all the NGSI-LD requests to the newest C driver of the mongo client, but that work has still not commenced.

To download, build and install:

```bash
sudo mkdir /opt/mongoclient
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /opt/mongoclient  # (1)
cd /opt/mongoclient
wget https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-cxx-driver/archive/legacy-1.1.2.tar.gz
tar xfvz legacy-1.1.2.tar.gz
cd mongo-cxx-driver-legacy-1.1.2
scons --disable-warnings-as-errors --ssl --use-sasl-client
sudo scons install --prefix=/usr/local --disable-warnings-as-errors --ssl --use-sasl-client
```
(1) To make you the owner of a file, you need to state your username and group.
    The env var **USER** already exists, but if you want to cut 'n paste this "sudo chown" command, you'll need to create the env var **GROUP**, to reflect your group. In my case, I do this:
```bash
export GROUP=kz
```

After this, you should have the library *libmongoclient.a* under `/usr/local/lib/` and the header directory *mongo* under `/usr/local/include/`.

### libmicrohttpd

*libmicrohttpd* is the library that takes care of incoming connections and http/https.
We use an older version of it, soon to be repaced by the latest release.
This is how you install libmicrohttpd from source code:

```bash
sudo mkdir /opt/libmicrohttpd
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /opt/libmicrohttpd
cd /opt/libmicrohttpd
wget http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/libmicrohttpd/libmicrohttpd-0.9.48.tar.gz
tar xvf libmicrohttpd-0.9.48.tar.gz
cd libmicrohttpd-0.9.48
./configure --disable-messages --disable-postprocessor --disable-dauth
make
sudo make install
```

### rapidjson

*rapidjson* is the JSON parser used by the NGSI APIv2 implementation.
AS Orion-LD includes NGSI APIv2 as well, we need this library.
Like libmicrohttpd, we use an older version of the library.
This is	how to install it from source code:

```bash
sudo mkdir /opt/rapidjson
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /opt/rapidjson
cd /opt/rapidjson
wget https://github.com/miloyip/rapidjson/archive/v1.0.2.tar.gz
tar xfvz v1.0.2.tar.gz
sudo mv rapidjson-1.0.2/include/rapidjson/ /usr/local/include
```

### kbase

*kbase* is a collection of basic functionality, like string handling, that is used by the rest of the "K-libs".
To download, build and install:

```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://gitlab.com/kzangeli/kbase.git
cd kbase
git checkout release/0.5
make install
```

### klog

*klog* is a library for logging, used by the rest of the "K-libs".
To download, build and install:

```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://gitlab.com/kzangeli/klog.git
cd klog
git checkout release/0.5
make install
```


### kalloc

*kalloc* is a library that provides faster allocation by avoiding calls to `malloc`.
The library allocates *big* buffers by calling `malloc` and then gives out portions of this big allocated buffer.
The portions cannot be freed, only the *big* buffers allocated via `malloc` and that is done when the kalloc instance dies.
For a context broker, that treats every request in a separate thread, this is ideal from a performance point of view. 

To download, build and install:
```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://gitlab.com/kzangeli/kalloc.git
cd kalloc
git checkout release/0.5
make install
```

### kjson

*kjson* is a JSON parser that builds a simple-to-use KjNode tree from the textual JSON input.
It is very easy to use (linked lists) and many times faster than rapidjson, which APIv2 uses.
The new implementation for NGSI-LD uses `kjson` instead of rapidjson.

To download, build and install:
```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://gitlab.com/kzangeli/kjson.git
cd kjson
git checkout release/0.5
make install
```

### khash

*khash* is a library that provides a hash table implementation. This hash table is used for the Context Cache of Orion-LD.

To download, build and install:
```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://gitlab.com/kzangeli/khash.git
cd khash
git checkout release/0.5
make install
```

### MQTT (Paho & Mosquitto)

*MQTT* is a machine-to-machine (M2M)/"Internet of Things" connectivity protocol. It was designed as an extremely lightweight publish/subscribe messaging transport. It is useful for connections with remote locations where a small code footprint is required and/or network bandwidth is at a premium. Source: https://mqtt.org

To download, build and install:

#### Eclipse Paho

The *Eclipse Paho* project provides open-source client implementations of MQTT and MQTT-SN messaging protocols aimed at new, existing, and emerging applications for the Internet of Things (IoT). Source: https://www.eclipse.org/paho

```bash
apt-get -y install doxygen
apt-get -y install graphviz
rm -f /usr/local/lib/libpaho*
cd ~/git
git clone https://github.com/eclipse/paho.mqtt.c.git
cd paho.mqtt.c
git fetch -a
git checkout tags/v1.3.1
make html
make
sudo make install

# Python library
pip install paho-mqtt
```
#### Eclipse Mosquitto

*Eclipse Mosquitto* is an open source (EPL/EDL licensed) message broker that implements the MQTT protocol versions 5.0, 3.1.1 and 3.1. Mosquitto is lightweight and is suitable for use on all devices from low power single board computers to full servers. Source: https://mosquitto.org

```bash
sudo apt-get install mosquitto
sudo systemctl start mosquitto

# If you wish to enable `mosquitto` to have it start automatically on system reboot:
# [ If you prefer to use another MQTT broker, that's fine too. But, bear in mind that only mosquitto has been tested ]
sudo systemctl enable mosquitto
```


## Source code of Orion-LD

Now that we have all the dependencies installed, it's time to clone the Orion-LD repository:

```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://github.com/FIWARE/context.Orion-LD.git
cd context.Orion-LD
make install
```

At the end of `make install`, the makefile wants to copy the executable (orionld) to /usr/bin, and more files under /usr.
As the compilation hasn't been (and shouldn't be) run as root (sudo), these copies will fail.
So, you have two options here:

&nbsp;1.  Create the files by hand, using `sudo` and then set yourself as owner of the files:
```bash
sudo touch /usr/bin/orionld
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /usr/bin/orionld
sudo touch /etc/init.d/orionld
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /etc/init.d/orionld
sudo touch /etc/default/orionld
sudo chown $USER:$GROUP /etc/default/orionld
```

&nbsp;2.  Run `sudo make install` and let the files be owned by root.

Personally I prefer option 1. I really dislike to use `sudo`.

You now have *orionld*, the NGSI-LD Context Broker compiled, installed and ready to work!

Except, of course, you need to install the MongoDB server as well.
So far, we have only installed the mongo client library, so that *orionld* can speak to the MongoDB server.

## Install the MongoDB server
If using a docker image, the MongoDB server comes as part of the docker, but if docker is not used, then the MongoDB server must be installed.
For this, preser refer to the [MongoDB documentation](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-ubuntu/).
The version 4.0 is recommended, but both older and newer should work just fine.

This is what the MongoDB documentation tells us to do to install MongoDB server 4.0 under Ubuntu 18.04:

```bash
# Import the MongoDB public GPG Key
wget -qO - https://www.mongodb.org/static/pgp/server-4.0.asc | sudo apt-key add -
# Should respond with "OK"

# Create the list file /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mongodb-org-4.0.list
echo "deb [ arch=amd64 ] https://repo.mongodb.org/apt/ubuntu bionic/mongodb-org/4.0 multiverse" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mongodb-org-4.0.list

# Reload local package database
sudo apt-get update

# Install the MongoDB packages
sudo apt-get install -y mongodb-org

# Once the installation is done, start MongoDB before starting Orionld
sudo systemctl start mongod

```

For more detail on the MongoDB installation process, or if something goes wrong, please refer to the [MongoDB documentation](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-ubuntu/)

### Installation of Postgres 12 on Ubuntu 18.04

Add the postgres repo
```bash
wget --quiet -O - https://www.postgresql.org/media/keys/ACCC4CF8.asc | sudo apt-key add -
echo "deb http://apt.postgresql.org/pub/repos/apt/ `lsb_release -cs`-pgdg main" |sudo tee  /etc/apt/sources.list.d/pgdg.list
```

#### Install Postgres
```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt -y install postgresql-12 postgresql-client-12
sudo apt install postgis postgresql-12-postgis-3
sudo apt-get install postgresql-12-postgis-3-scripts
```

Add Postgres development libraries
```bash
sudo apt-get install libpq-dev
```

Add timescale db and posgis
```bash
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:timescale/timescaledb-ppa
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt install timescaledb-postgresql-12
```

Command for checking postgres
```bash
systemctl status postgresql.service
```
The output should be something like this:
```text
postgresql.service - PostgreSQL RDBMS
    Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/postgresql.service; enabled; vendor preset: enabled)
    Active: active (exited) since Sun 2019-10-06 10:23:46 UTC; 6min ago
  Main PID: 8159 (code=exited, status=0/SUCCESS)
     Tasks: 0 (limit: 2362)
    CGroup: /system.slice/postgresql.service
 Oct 06 10:23:46 ubuntu18 systemd[1]: Starting PostgreSQL RDBMS…
 Oct 06 10:23:46 ubuntu18 systemd[1]: Started PostgreSQL RDBMS.
```

```bash
systemctl status postgresql@12-main.service 
```
The output should be something like this:
```text
postgresql@12-main.service - PostgreSQL Cluster 12-main
    Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/postgresql@.service; indirect; vendor preset: enabled)
    Active: active (running) since Sun 2019-10-06 10:23:49 UTC; 5min ago
  Main PID: 9242 (postgres)
     Tasks: 7 (limit: 2362)
    CGroup: /system.slice/system-postgresql.slice/postgresql@12-main.service
            ├─9242 /usr/lib/postgresql/12/bin/postgres -D /var/lib/postgresql/12/main -c config_file=/etc/postgresql/12/main/postgresql.conf
            ├─9254 postgres: 12/main: checkpointer   
            ├─9255 postgres: 12/main: background writer   
            ├─9256 postgres: 12/main: walwriter   
            ├─9257 postgres: 12/main: autovacuum launcher   
            ├─9258 postgres: 12/main: stats collector   
            └─9259 postgres: 12/main: logical replication launcher   
 Oct 06 10:23:47 ubuntu18 systemd[1]: Starting PostgreSQL Cluster 12-main…
 Oct 06 10:23:49 ubuntu18 systemd[1]: Started PostgreSQL Cluster 12-main.
 ```
 
 Enable postgres
 ```bash
 systemctl is-enabled postgresql
```

Edit postgresql.conf
```bash
sudo nano /etc/postgresql/12/main/postgresql.conf
```
Add this line at then end of the file and save it
```bash
shared_preload_libraries = 'timescaledb'
```
That's it - no need to send any signals nor restart anything.
